[Music]
hey I got kind of a personal question
for you
um are you an ectomorph or an endomorph
or perhaps you're a lucky mesomorph yeah
I'm not implying you're a space alien or
something it's just that every single
person has a specific body type and
knowing yours can be a great help if you
want to build the body of your dreams
adjust your workout to your body type
and you'll achieve the best results
let's start with exploring the body
types first there are three of them as
proposed by dr. William Sheldon an
American psychologist back in the 1940s
let's see if you recognize yourself in
one of them
first there's the ectomorph people with
this body type are slim usually tall and
with longer limbs look at Usain Bolt if
you want a good example
they are those lucky types that can eat
whatever they want and never get love
handles or too much of a bottom on the
flipside ectomorphs also have difficulty
gaining muscle mass so however hard they
work out they stay lean and can't ever
bulk up even if they want to
well at least they can drown their
sorrows in a piece of cake or two then
there are endomorphs these are the exact
opposite of the previous type short
stocky and with a tendency to gain
weight from every single crumb eaten
after lunch look no further than Danny
DeVito for a vivid example of an
endomorph these guys struggle to slim
down and their prominent gut and wide
hips might be killing them if they
decide to walk the athletic path there's
always a bright side though so
endomorphs are naturally more powerful
than ectomorphs and they make excellent
bodybuilders or weight lifters and
finally the fortunate mesomorphs why
fortunate well because they have this
perfect balance of muscle and fat along
with a natural ability to change their
body to their liking and fast Christian
Bale is the perfect mesomorph just one
look at
rolls in the machinist and American
hustle is enough to see why mesomorphs
can rather easily gain muscle mass and
become fit in no time on the other hand
they lose their bulk as easily - so it's
not like they take a walk in the park
and come home with shredded legs uh uh
life's easy for them but not that easy
of course these three body types are not
categorical and you can find yourself
somewhere in between so here are some
tips to follow and exercises to perform
according to your body type number one
ectomorph regimen with this body type
you have no trouble losing weight but
when you try to gain muscle mass you'll
only end up with lean muscle becoming
thin and wiry if you want to bulk up a
bit here's what you should do first and
foremost start packing on proteins
proteins are basically building blocks
for your muscles and combined with carbs
they will help you gain mass in the end
the trouble here is that you should be
prepared to eat a lot more than you've
probably eaten before because your
metabolism is generally faster than that
of other people and you need more
nutrients to feed your sinews so help
yourself and start munching on protein
and carbohydrate rich foods be careful
though not to over eat fatty stuff
because despite fat being good for you -
having too much of it may slow down your
muscle building process secondly
concentrate on strength training and
heavy lifting compound moves are your
best friends as well basic exercises
like deadlift squats crunches and
push-ups engage large muscle groups
helping you build your physique faster
and easier isolation exercises on the
other hand will only slow down your
progress as they only see one or two
muscles working and thirdly don't overdo
the cardio running swimming or cycling
is nice and all but cardio workout makes
you lose weight not gain it
and why would you want to lose any more
of your weight when you're already as
slim as a branch still don't overdo it
doesn't mean you don't have to do it at
all low intensity cardio helps you to
get your blood pumping delivering
nutrients to your muscle tissues that is
even if you're packing it with proteins
and carbs they'll have a better effect
on your body if it's warmed up correctly
all in all if you're an ectomorph
concentrate on eating a lot doing a lot
of strength exercises and go easy on the
cardio this way you'll see good results
very soon
[Music]
number two endomorph regimen for this
type it's typical to be heavy around the
waist with smaller shoulders you have
genetic factors to blame for that in
fact there are fat storing mechanisms
that work inside you that prepare you
for hungry times
luckily the times when food was a rare
commodity have long since passed so now
it's better to focus on how to shift
your weight from the waist to the upper
body and make your overall shape balance
I won't be hiding bad news from you and
des morphs have the hardest time losing
weight on the bright side though and
that's where we are you really don't
have to run for hours on end drowning
the treadmill in your sweat certified
trainer will produce as long and steady
cardio workout doesn't really help burn
fat interval training is much more
effective and takes much less time than
simple running or cycling for example
sprinting is a great burst technique
that you can adopt a lose weight faster
oh and forget about crunches they work
for other body types but not yours
crunches are good for shaping the
muscles but they don't burn any fat at
all in order to bulk up your upper body
and make your looks less pair like you
should concentrate on getting rid of
that belly of yours first and then do
some intensive weight lifting heavy
weights and cardio will work wonders for
you in the long run just be prepared for
this run to be well long endomorph
straining routine isn't exactly a piece
of cake speaking of cakes unfortunately
it's time to say goodbye
I to pastry if you want to lose weight
and become fit you should cut your daily
caloric intake to about 1750 calories in
fact the lower your calorie intake the
faster you should be shedding pounds but
overdoing it isn't a good thing if you
go below 1,500 calories per day
well cheerfully sweating away at the gym
you just might get knocked off from
exhaustion at some point being a little
hungry all the time is okay but don't
forget to keep your energy levels high
enough now summarizing all the stuff I
just told you go for intense interval
training ditch long running sessions
bulk up your shoulders with weights and
cut your calorie intake to less than you
use everyday and of course there should
be very few carbs in your diet and more
proteins number three mesomorph regimen
well mesomorphs are the easiest to train
by far if you belong to this type you
probably already have balanced looks and
you might have noticed how simple it is
for you to grow muscle mass or lose fat
you should also consider yourself lucky
that you don't see the look of jealousy
on my face right now anyway even though
mesomorphs have won the genetic jackpot
you can still better yourself in terms
of training you should first of all stop
procrastinating and start actually
working out your body type allows you to
cut yourself a lot of slack without my
charm and most mesomorphs abuse this
otherwise cool feature of their body so
in order to make the most of your
awesome build train to achieve that
means you should concentrate on doing
everything in moderation but setting
certain goals for yourself moderately
intense cardio workouts are good for you
and you can easily maintain long running
sessions if you want to strength
training is also all about moderate to
heavy weights with the number of reps
from low to relatively high that is if
you take heavy weights then four to six
reps should suffice if you choose to
lift lighter ones feel free to go up to
15 to 18 reps you should be able to do
that quite easily well with your in
Bourne's
tamanna and strength intense workouts
with clearly set goals will bring about
the best you can get from your golden
body type so that you can boast about it
even more yeah I'm still jealous as for
the diet plant it can be rather relaxed
since you don't tend to gain weight as
fast as endomorphs and don't need to
munch on carbs and proteins like
ectomorphs do basically you can just
watch your energy intake to stay within
2,500 calories
cut down on excess fats and carbs and be
generally happy you belong to mesomorphs
because otherwise you can eat whatever
you want so a quick recap set yourself
some goals to achieve indulge in a
moderate training regimen and eat to
your heart's content without being too
keen on fats and carbs so have you found
yourself in any of the three body types
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today then give
this video a like and share it with a
friend
but hey don't go morphing into new
shapes just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life